So next, we are going to get
the API credentials that we
need to actually send messages as our bot.
We're gonna need a signing secret for
verifying that the messages are valid.
And then we're also going
to get a bot OAuth token.
So let's make this window bigger again.
And we have, It's right here, so
we'll grab this bot OAuth token.
And I'm gonna let that be
visible on screen I guess.
Don't be naughty, chat.
Now that we've got the setup here,
we can go back into our code.
You can open this up and
there's a .env.example that I
apparently didn't commit to this repo.
So create a new file called .env, and
we're going to set
SLACK_BOT_OATH_TOKEN and
put in the value of the key there.
And the other one that we're gonna
need is SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET.
And that one is going to be,
In here somewhere, we're gonna find that
one by looking at the app credentials.
Which is in basic information.
And we have the signing secret.
So I'm going to copy this and head back,
paste it in there, and save it,
and we can close that down for now.
Next, we're gonna restart
this app locally, and
so we'll have to update the bot command,
and
so cuz we need to pick up
those environment variables.
Now, Netlify is smart enough that it
knows to check environment files.
So it just grabs that .env value, and
we'll put that in our environment force,
so I can shrink this down.
And then what I need to do is grab,
The new live hash which is
this little set here, oops.
Grab this new hash here.
Why are you doing that,
just copy it, there we go.
Shrink this back down.
And then we're gonna head
into the slash commands, and
just update that hash one more time.
Okay, so
now we've got a command that can actually
send messages to the chat as our bot user.
So we're going to head
into our terminal here.
I'm actually gonna minimize this
entirely for a bit because that way
we can do side-by-side and
that'll be easier to see what's going on.
So if we wanna send one of these,
we can just send a message to
the chat.postmessage endpoint.
The Slack API is fairly full-featured,
you can do quite a bit with it.
We're only gonna get into the bits
around sending messages and
then using the blocks API.
There's a lot more you can do.
You can get pretty in-depth
with what types of feedback or
interactivity you wanna put
into your ChatOps workflow.
What we are gonna do is we're going
to open up this util.slack.ts,
or util/slack.ts, and inside of it,
we are going to create a function
that lets us talk to the Slack API.
So, export function slackApi(), and
that is going to accept two arguments.
The first one is going to be the endpoint,
and that is a slackApiEndpoint.
This is out of the,
Types folder that is predefined for us.
And so that just gives us the ones
that we're actually gonna use,
chat.postmessage and views.open.
Then we're going to have a body, and
that body has a slackApiRequestBody.
And those are gonna be the two inputs.
And what this means is we're gonna be able
to now send requests to the Slack API
using kind of a unified flow instead of
having to redeclare our fetch API call.
And set the token and all the things that
we need in order to make these requests.
We can just do it in this command and
have a lot of the stuff set up for
us ready to go.
So, this will return a fetch command, and
that is going to go to the Slack API,
so slack.com/api.
And then we wanna set up the endpoint.
And the arguments that we send to it.
First of all, it's gonna be a POST method.
We wanna use the POST method and
then we need to send some headers.
The headers that we need to send are first
and foremost an Authorization header.
And that is going to be a bearer token
that uses our slack bot token.
SLACK_BOT_OAUTH_TOKEN, then we wanna
let it know that we're sending JSON.
So we'll do a content-type,
and send application/json.
And then I like to include the charset
because otherwise if you use emoji or
a character with a diacritic or
something, it can cause issues.
So, that there, and then for the body,
we're gonna send in whatever the body is
that we wanna use as stringified JSON.
So, we'll just send in a JavaScript
object and that's gonna be what we send.
Whatever comes back from that fetch,
we're gonna grab out
as the response, and
then we will return JSON value.
And so this is gonna be what we use
every time we wanna make a request to
the Slack API.
It's gonna allow us to very
quickly send chat messages and
other things without having to do
this whole header setup every time.
And keep track of where our environment
variables are and all that good stuff.